{\rtf1\ansi\deff0

{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fmodern Courier New;}
{\f2\fswiss Arial;}
}

{\stylesheet
{\snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs16 \additive \i \sbasedon10 pod-I;}
{\*\cs17 \additive \i\lang1024\noproof \sbasedon10 pod-F;}
{\*\cs18 \additive \b \sbasedon10 pod-B;}
{\*\cs19 \additive \f1\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon10 pod-C;}
{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sa180\widctlpar\f1\fs18\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon0 \snext0 pod-codeblock;}
{\*\cs21 \additive \lang1024\noproof \sbasedon10 pod-computerese;}
{\*\cs22 \additive \i\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon10 pod-L-pod;}
{\*\cs23 \additive \i\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon10 pod-L-url;}
{\*\cs24 \additive \i\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon10 pod-L-man;}

{\*\cs25 \additive \f1\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon0 pod-codelbock-plain;}
{\*\cs26 \additive \f1\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon25 pod-codelbock-ital;}
{\*\cs27 \additive \f1\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon25 pod-codelbock-bold;}
{\*\cs28 \additive \f1\lang1024\noproof\sbasedon25 pod-codelbock-bold-ital;}

{\s31\ql \keepn\sb90\sa180\f2\fs32\ul\sbasedon0 \snext0 pod-head1;}
{\s32\ql \keepn\sb90\sa180\f2\fs28\ul\sbasedon0 \snext0 pod-head2;}
{\s33\ql \keepn\sb90\sa180\f2\fs25\ul\sbasedon0 \snext0 pod-head3;}
{\s34\ql \keepn\sb90\sa180\f2\fs22\ul\sbasedon0 \snext0 pod-head4;}
}

{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\info{\doccomm
Pod::Perldoc::ToRtf v1.01 (Pod::Simple::RTF 1.01)
 using Pod::Simple::PullParser v1.03
 under Perl v5.008 at Mon Jul 21 18:39:30 2003 GMT}
{\author Sean M. Burke}{\company interglacial.com}{\operator Sean M. Burke}
}

\deflang1033\plain\lang1033\widowctrl
{\header\pard\qr\plain\f2\fs17
Lorem Ipsum Dolet, 
p.\chpgn\par}
\fs25



{\pard\li0\sa180
This was a wee digression about Latin that was in the book, near the 
subsections that use "Urbem Romam a principio reges habuere" as text. 
We had to edit it out for reasons of space, but it may interest you.
\par}

{\pard\li0\s31\keepn\sb90\sa180\f2\fs32\ul{
Lorem Ipsum Dolet
}\par}

{\pard\li0\sa180
You've certainly noticed that this chapter uses bits of Latin as filler 
text when we're discussing different kinds of paragraph layout. This 
is actually a tradition in typesetting going back centuries. The most 
common text to use is a passage that starts out "Lorem ipsum dolor 
sit amet, consectetaur adipisicing elit...", which is often called 
"greeking", in spite of being Latin more than anything else. "Lorem 
ipsum" started out as phrases extracted from sections 1.10.32 and 
1.10.33 of Cicero's {\cs16\i
De \'46inibus Bonorum et Malorum}, which says "...Neque porro quisquam est, qui do{\cs16\i
lorem} {\cs16\i
ipsum} quia {\cs16\i
dolor sit amet}, {\cs16\i
consectetur, adipisci velit}...".
\par}

{\pard\li0\sa180
The distorted version ("Lorem ipsum...") is gibberish, but the original 
means "And suffering is not loved, nor sought out, nor experienced 
for its own sake...", and is part of a larger passage about how we 
willingly do unpleasant things only if we think it'll get us something 
that we want. In any case, since textual fidelity was unimportant 
to the goal of having random, meaningless, un\_copyrighted text to 
fill a page, the passage has degraded over the centuries.
\par}

{\pard\li0\sa180
To update the tradition a bit, this chapter uses {\cs16\i
real} Latin. The paragraphs beginning "Urbem Romam a principio reges habuere" 
are from the start of Tacitus's {\cs16\i
Annalium Romae} ({\cs16\i
History of Rome}), and explains how Roman government started out as a monarchy but 
became a democratic consulship, with lapses into dictatorships under 
martial law. And the verse beginning "Nullus in urbe fuit tota" is 
sort of limerick from Martial to Cecilian explaining that assigning 
bodyguards to his boring wife has only made her seem suddenly alluring. 
Such is Roman literature.
\par}
}
