{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0\froman Times New Roman;}}
{\info {\author .}{\company .}{\title .}}
\deflang1033 \plain \fs26 \widowctrl \hyphauto \ftnbj



\paperw15840 \paperh12240
\margl1440 \margr1440 \margt1800 \margb1800
\landscape


\fs20

{\header \pard\qr\plain\f0\fs16 \chpgn \par}

{\pard\sa200\sa200
When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people
 to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another,
 and to assume among the Powers of the earth, the separate and equal
 station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a
 decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should
 declare the causes which impel them to the separation.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,
 that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
 that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men,
 deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends,
 it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to
 institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and
 organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to
 effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that
 Governments long established should not be changed for light and
 transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shown, that
 mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to
 right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.
 But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the
 same Object, evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism,
 it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and
 to provide new Guards for their future security.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
Such has been the patient sufferance of these Colonies; and such is now
 the necessity which constrains them to alter their former Systems of
 Government. The history of the present King of Great Britain is a
 history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct
 object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States. To
 prove this, let Facts be submitted to a candid world.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary for
 the public good.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing
 importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent should
 be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend
 to them.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of large
 districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of
 Representation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and
 formidable to tyrants only.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual,
 uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public Records,
 for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his
 measures.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing with
 manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause others
 to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapable of
 Annihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise;
 the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of
 invasion from without, and convulsions within.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for that
 purpose obstructing the Laws of Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing
 to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising the
 conditions of new Appropriations of Lands.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refus- ing his
 Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their
 offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of
 Officers to harass our People, and eat out their substance.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the
 Consent of our legislatures.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to
 the Civil power.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to
 our constitution, and unacknowledged by by our laws; giving his Assent
 to their Acts of pretended Legislation For quartering large bodies of
 armed troops among us For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from
 Punishment for any Murders which they should commit on the Inhabitants
 of these States.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world For imposing Taxes
 on us without our Consent For depriving us in many cases, of the
 benefits of Trial by Jury For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried
 for pretended offences For abolishing the free System of English Laws in
 a neighbouring Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government,
 and enlarging its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and
 fit instrument for introducing the same absolute rule into these
 Colonies For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable
 Laws, and altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments
\par}

{\pard\sa200
For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves invested
 with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his Protection
 and waging War against us.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and
 destroyed the Lives of our people.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He is at this time transporting large armies of foreign mercenaries to
 complete the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with
 circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most
 barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the Head of a civilized nation.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas to
 bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of their
 friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to
 bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages,
 whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of all
 ages, sexes and conditions.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress in
 the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by
 repeated injury. A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every act
 which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
Nor have We been wanting in attention to our British brethren. We have
 warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend
 an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of the
 circumstances of our emi- gration and settlement here. We have appealed
 to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by
 the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which would
 inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have
 been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must,
 therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation,
 and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, in Peace
 Friends.
\par}

{\pard\sa200
We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, in
 General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world
 for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by Authority
 of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That
 these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent
 States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown,
 and that all political connection between them and the State of Great
 Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and
 Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace,
 contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and
 Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of
 this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the Protection of Divine
 Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and
 our sacred Honor.
\par}

}
